README.md, before:

# TimezoneDetect

![build](https://github.com/lfborjas/timezone-detect/workflows/Haskell%20CI/badge.svg)


Haskell bindings to the excellent [ZoneDetect](https://github.com/BertoldVdb/ZoneDetect) library, plus additional
UNIX-aware facilities to determine the UTC time of a given local time in a latitude and longitude.

## Usage

You'll need timezone database files to work with this library, see instructions [in the original repository](https://github.com/BertoldVdb/ZoneDetect/tree/master/database).

Once you have those files in hand, you'll be able to get a timezone from a given latitude and longitude:

```haskell
>>> lookupTimeZoneName "./test/tz_db/timezone21.bin" 40.7831 (-73.9712) :: Maybe TimeZoneName
Just "America/New_York"
```

Additionally, we now depend on the [timezone-series](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/timezone-series) and [timezone-olson](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/timezone-olson) packages to add awareness of `tz database` information.

With that, you can look up the UTC time at a point in time and space:

```haskell
>>> import Data.Time
>>> localWinter <- parseTimeM True defaultTimeLocale "%Y-%-m-%-d %T" "2019-12-25 00:30:00"
>>> utcTime <- timeAtPointToUTC "./test/tz_db/timezone21.bin" 40.7831 (-73.9712) localWinter
2019-12-25 05:30:00 UTC

>>> localSummer <- parseTimeM True defaultTimeLocale "%Y-%-m-%-d %T" "2019-07-25 00:30:00"
>>> utcTime <- timeAtPointToUTC "./test/tz_db/timezone21.bin" 40.7831 (-73.9712) localWinter
2019-07-25 04:30:00 UTC
```

You can also opt to obtain the timezone name separately (if you wanted to isolate that as a failure scenario,)
and, once in possession of it, use `timeInTimeZoneToUTC`:

```haskell
>>> localSummer <- parseTimeM True defaultTimeLocale "%Y-%-m-%-d %T" "2019-07-25 00:30:00"
>>> utcTime <- timeInTimeZoneToUTC "America/New_York" localSummer
2019-07-25 04:30:00 UTC
```

Commit message:

Add ability to obtain database separately.
Breaking change: looking at the original lib more closely, it was
definitely a mistake to not be able to close the database file; split
that into a convenience fn that opens/closes using a `bracket`,
and focus the original focus function into taking said database.

README.md, after:

# TimezoneDetect

![build](https://github.com/lfborjas/timezone-detect/workflows/Haskell%20CI/badge.svg)


Haskell bindings to the excellent [ZoneDetect](https://github.com/BertoldVdb/ZoneDetect) library, plus additional
UNIX-aware facilities to determine the UTC time of a given local time in a latitude and longitude.

## Usage

You'll need timezone database files to work with this library, see instructions [in the original repository](https://github.com/BertoldVdb/ZoneDetect/tree/master/database).

Once you have those files in hand, you'll be able to get a timezone from a given latitude and longitude:

```haskell
>>> db <- openTimeZoneDatabase "./test/tz_db/timezone21.bin" 
>>> tz <- lookupTimeZoneName db 40.7831 (-73.9712) :: Maybe TimeZoneName
Just "America/New_York"
>>> closeTimeZoneDatabase db
```

A convenience function that opens and closes the file when done is also provided, specialized to `IO`:

```haskell
tz <- lookupTimeZoneNameFromFile "./test/tz_db/timezone21.bin" 40.7831 (-73.9712)
"America/New_York"
```

Additionally, we now depend on the [timezone-series](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/timezone-series) and [timezone-olson](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/timezone-olson) packages to add awareness of `tz database` information.

With that, you can look up the UTC time at a point in time and space:

```haskell
>>> import Data.Time
>> db <- openTimeZoneDatabase "./test/tz_db/timezone21.bin"
>>> localWinter <- parseTimeM True defaultTimeLocale "%Y-%-m-%-d %T" "2019-12-25 00:30:00"
>>> utcTime <- timeAtPointToUTC db 40.7831 (-73.9712) localWinter
2019-12-25 05:30:00 UTC

>>> localSummer <- parseTimeM True defaultTimeLocale "%Y-%-m-%-d %T" "2019-07-25 00:30:00"
>>> utcTime <- timeAtPointToUTC db 40.7831 (-73.9712) localWinter
2019-07-25 04:30:00 UTC
```

You can also opt to obtain the timezone name separately (if you wanted to isolate that as a failure scenario,)
and, once in possession of it, use `timeInTimeZoneToUTC`:

```haskell
>>> localSummer <- parseTimeM True defaultTimeLocale "%Y-%-m-%-d %T" "2019-07-25 00:30:00"
>>> utcTime <- timeInTimeZoneToUTC "America/New_York" localSummer
2019-07-25 04:30:00 UTC
```
